the scientific discussion of x3 so this
is detailed on the on the website where
we make multiple references and the
reason in scientific papers that
multiple references are made and
sometimes you scroll to the bottom of a
scientific paper and you see hundreds of
references it's because all of these
things interrelate so when somebody
looks at one of the observations we've
made or one of the references and pulls
a sentence out of one study and says
well x3 is not this well right that's
why we reference multiple studies so
these things all relate together so when
let me go back and talk about the
history so I had been observing as about
bone-density researcher and I developed
some machines some devices that
stimulate bone density what I was doing
was loading the human body and optimized
ranges of motion so where humans
naturally absorb my impact so like in
the upper body about right here where
there's a 120 degree angle of inclusion
right here delivering force here saying
mathematics and geometry and of adjoins
of the body and seeing a very aggressive
bone growth as a result of loading those
positions I always made aware of what
was going on at Westside barbell which
is a small genome in Ohio that had
broken more than 140 World Records using
the variable resistance and I thought
okay so they're doing loading at the
bottom and then doing kind of a hyper
loading at the top by using bands with
weights and I thought that's very
interesting it's an assembly line logic
to what I'm working on then in 2008 of
Professor Anderson and researchers
published a study that was a look at the
results that were taken from a group of
individuals so they took the Cornell
athletes from all sorts of different
sports who's a big study and they did
have half of them did their regular
training protocol the other half did the
variable resistance protocol so they
used to actually lower amount of weight
than they would normally lift and then
they added band so it was hyper loading
at the top more than they could handle
at the bottom normally and then a lower
load at the bottoms is really important
to point out that there was a curve to
this loading they may have been handling
X at the bottom and 1.3 X at the top but
the point is they use the variance now
the results in that study showed two to
three times the amount of strength
gained in the period of time was 24
weeks versus the control very profound
now this was a verification of what was
a barbell had been doing and fantastic
and there's there's observations that
have been made with chains and bands and
all kinds of ways to vary the resistance
but then I took my medical device and
there was a study done in London
Hospital in London and we were looking
at postmenopausal females so these are
not athletes is there actually
deconditioned postmenopausal females and
something really amazing
was was brought to light which was we
were loading these women with 7 8 9
times their body weight through their
hip so take your body weight and
multiply it by 8 incredible force
weight lifters professional weight
lifters don't use that kind of kind of
weight and these were deconditioned
women so now they've built up to that
over over a six month period of time but
it was amazing what they were capable of
and that was the whole objective behind
compression of bone and bone growth now
and that's what also happens in
high-impact so when I looked at the I
came home back to the states and I
looked at the level of loading that they
were using and then looked at the level
of loading that the American College of
Sports Medicine has in most of their
documentation the levels of loading that
non-athletic versus athletic people deal
with with
remedies and it was 1.3 to 1.5 three
multiples of body weight so this tells
us that there's a Sevenfold difference
just based on those two data sets
now populations athletes we're not
looking at that but ultimately 1.3 1.5 3
versus let's say on average 8.5 I think
it ended up being 8.7 multiples by the
way that's a 7 fold difference so that
made me look at the innocent study and
say all right well this whole idea of X
here and 1.3 x here is barely scratching
the surface of what we may actually be
capable of with stimulating muscular
growth what we really need is a lower
rate here where our joints are
compromised and a far higher rate here
not only can we go higher in repetitions
we can fatigue multiple ranges of motion
something you cannot do with a static
weight so you go to fatigue here with a
highway then when you can't get that you
notify at a medium weight then at the
end of your set where you can barely
move you go to fatigue here and really
short repetitions with an even lower
rate really easy on the joints and the
amount of fatigue that goes through the
muscle is far beyond what you would get
with any sort of static weight system
also the amount of force and this is a
question that we get it's just fans or I
understand I can get a band for for $40
at Walmart I want you to look at this
block of solid latex this is one of the
heavier bands that's how much weight
you're moving that that would add for a
6 foot tall person that ends up being
about a 250 pound chest press and at
peak you go to fatigue there for a few
repetitions which normally people don't
handle that very many repetitions the
average person handle very many
repetitions
and then you diminish the range so all
these things all these studies
interrelate to make the rationale behind
x3 one clarification so the study that
was done in London where we exposed to
very high loads to the lower lower body
and kinetic chain these women weren't
squatting seven eight nine times their
body weight the load was just exposed in
the impact ready position so like I said
120 degree angle of inclusion right
there
that's a group trip and fall that's how
you absorb the force so these will bone
compressive movements in the optimized
range of motion the impact rating range
of motion so this was to stimulate bone
density growth but the clarity that it
gave me to develop x3 was that we are
really missing out on so many triggers
for growth by not looking at the massive
difference between our capability in the
strong range and the capability in the
weak range and ultimately if you look at
human movement if you look at sprinters
they have 180 degrees available in their
needs only but they only use 7 degrees
with a firearm or Toto move forward so
why is that that's the optimized range
of motion we use the optimized range of
motion all the time to absorb or produce
great amount of forces far heavier than
we could ever lift
now if we use variable resistance if we
double down on the variance of
resistance and maybe for some forget
about the weights we have growth
potential that we've never tapped